.. _conduct:

Community Code of Conduct
=========================

The Pylons Project developers work their hardest to adhere to a common
community code of conduct based heavily on the `Ubuntu Code of Conduct
<http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct>`_. We would greatly appreciate it if
everyone contributing and interacting with projects under the Pylons Project
also followed this Code of Conduct.

Be considerate.
---------------

Your work will be used by other people, and you in turn will depend on the
work of others. Any decision you take will affect users and colleagues, and we
expect you to take those consequences into account when making decisions. For
example, when we are in a feature freeze, please don't upload dramatically new
versions of critical system software, as other people will be testing the
frozen system and will not be expecting big changes.

Be respectful.
--------------

The Pylons Project community and its members treat one another with respect.
Everyone can make a valuable contribution to the Pylons Project. We may not
always agree, but disagreement is no excuse for poor behavior and poor
manners. We might all experience some frustration now and then, but we cannot
allow that frustration to turn into a personal attack. It's important to
remember that a community where people feel uncomfortable or threatened is not
a productive one. We expect members of the Pylons Project community to be
respectful when dealing with other contributors as well as with people outside
the Pylons Project and with users of its projects.

Be collaborative.
-----------------

The Pylons Project and Free Software are about collaboration and working
together. Collaboration reduces redundancy of work done in the Free Software
world, and improves the quality of the software produced. You should aim to
collaborate with other Pylons Project maintainers, as well as with the
upstream community that is interested in the work you do. Your work should be
done transparently and patches to Pylons projects should be given back to the
community when they are made, not just when the distribution releases. If you
wish to work on new code for existing upstream projects, at least keep those
projects informed of your ideas and progress. It may not be possible to get
consensus from upstream or even from your colleagues about the correct
implementation of an idea, so don't feel obliged to have that agreement before
you begin, but at least keep the outside world informed of your work, and
publish your work in a way that allows outsiders to test, discuss and
contribute to your efforts.

When you disagree,
------------------

…consult others. Disagreements, both political and technical, happen all the
time and the Pylons Project community is no exception. The important goal is
not to avoid disagreements or differing views, but to resolve them
constructively. You should turn to the community and to the community process
to seek advice and to resolve disagreements. There are several Project Teams
and Team Leaders, who may be able to help you figure out which direction will
be most acceptable. If you really want to go a different way, then we
encourage you to make a derivative distribution or alternative set of packages
that still build on the work we've done to utilize as common of a core as
possible.

When you are unsure,
--------------------

…ask for help. Nobody knows everything, and nobody is expected to be perfect
in the Pylons Project community (except of course the BDFL). Asking questions
avoids many problems down the road, and so questions are encouraged. Those who
are asked should be responsive and helpful. However, when asking a question,
care must be taken to do so in an appropriate forum. Off-topic questions, such
as requests for help on a development mailing list, detract from productive
discussion.

Step down considerately.
------------------------

Developers on every project come and go and the Pylons Project is no
different. When you leave or disengage from the project, in whole or in part,
we ask that you do so in a way that minimizes disruption to the project. This
means you should tell people you are leaving and take the proper steps to
ensure that others can pick up where you leave off.
